You know, he whipped out.
So I said, you know whose parking place you're in?
He said, no, sir, I just saw it as an open parking place.
I said, well, that's my parking place.
He said, well, I'll move my car.
I said, no, you won't.
You'll keep your car there.
You are now my driver, and that's my car.
And so Ross, when we got ready to make a beer run, Fish Margraves, yes sir, get our car warmed up.
And we'd take him along and we took him to Austin and all kinds of things.
He was dating this girl in Houston when we'd come to Houston.
He'd drive us back and forth.
We just kind of commandeered things as we went along.
And you were still majoring in business.
Yep.
Were there any courses that senior year that you remember that were important later?
Well, you know, I had to get through statistics, which was the killer in business.
And it wasn't important.
Let's see.
Who was...
What was that guy that taught statistics?
That was a killer in business.
Doctor somebody.
How well did you do?
Do you remember?
I had to make at least a C and I did.
I hated statistics.
Then I went to work for Prudential.
As an insurance major, I'd had statistics.
Hell, they thought I was brilliant because they had all these guys.
They had hired this management program.
And they didn't understand anything about statistics.
And the one-eyed man, I was king in the land of the blind.
You're talking about just falling in it.
So I went to work for Prudential.
Then I had to leave because they wrote my draft board.
And a guy was a friend of my dad who said, unless Jack wants to carry an M1, he needs to join something by Thursday.
So I sprinted out and joined the United States Coast Guard.
But that's after you graduated.
That's after I graduated.
So then I come back to Prudential and they rotate you through different departments in this program.
So they sent me out to sales and they said, where do you want to be?
I said, they gave me these things.
I said, I'll take Temple.
They said, why do you want to go to Temple?
I said, it's near Fort Hood and I got a bunch of buddies down there.
And I was single, so they'd march all their troops in, and they'd say, this is Mr. Raines, our insurance officer.
Okay, man, upper left-hand corner, last name, first name, middle initial.
Now, the next line's your serial number.
Sergeant, help that man.
It's on his dog tags around this thing.
So they took me out to Phoenix because they had a big convention out there that they wanted me to give a speech about how a young man could join Prudential and in his first six months there sell a million dollars in insurance.
Phenomenal.
I told him I'd read the manuals and taken a course they'd given me and I followed that.
The president of the company was at the head table, jumped up, ran up there and said, I just want this young man does what he's told.
He reads those manuals and he does that.
And if we could get more people, we've invested millions in this program and this young man's benefit.
And I'm thinking, listens to and follows direction, and they're going to find out about me one day and come and get me.
But I was doing the same thing I did at A&M.
Innovate, you know.
They taught you that in military tactics.
So the Aggie training was coming in.
Other than Rudder, who were some other impressive characters of A&M?
Wayne Stark was not a character, but he took time, and he would talk to you, and he and Gene were just lovely people, and I was genuinely fond of them, and then our friendship really grew afterwards.
Kutesh and Denton, I've told you how important
They were to me.
Colonel Melcher was just, you know, we stayed friends after even, you know, when I was in other outfits.
Old Army Lou, did you know him?
Oh, yeah.
In fact, my senior year, his nephew out of Dallas came to A&M, and Lou came over and looked me up, and he said, my nephew is going to be in your outfit.
And said, I've looked at the roster and said, Reigns, I know you.
Take care of him.
I said, Lou, you got it.
Was Pinky still there?
Pinky was alive.
He was getting kind of senile.
And, you know, he used to be, every time you'd come in the lounge,
over here and he went all dodging because, you know, you'd heard every story 50 times.
Let's see, some other traditions.
Did you go to muster?
Absolutely.
Where was it held?
Well, you know, the musters that I attended on campus,
uh at the msc i recall we had uh out on the steps yeah out on the steps there and i don't ever recall going to maybe we had one in g raleigh i'm that uh what did i think it would probably it was g raleigh if it was going to rain or something you know but what did those symbolize to you as a young man well it i'll tell you what it you know it hit me
at a muster that I was a part of something that was more than just going to school and, you know, it hit me that there was a continuum here that, in fact, I was invited back by the students to be a muster speaker in the voices of a proud tradition.
If you've ever read that publication, I'm proud to have been included in there in the first publication.
And in my muster speech, I said, in fact, I'll show you out here
The kid sent me the next year to muster, they used the line, that strong maroon line marches on.
And that was, I realized that I was a part of a continuum of something that is stretched through not only the history of A&M, but it embodies what Western civilization is about.
And that's where one generation sacrifices and gives to the next.
and you strengthen the line, you're a part of something that's much larger than you.
It's Christianity without Christ, it borders on a religion.
And I tell people that and they kind of look at you and they say that's sacrilegious.
I don't mean it in that sense, but to me it is like that feeling.
Does that make any sense to you?
When did you buy your senior ring?
As soon as I could, and I went every day to the mailbox in Port Arthur to see, you know.
And do you remember what it cost?
Not much, 60 bucks or something like that, and the former students paid a half of it.
Have you ever lost it?
No, still haven't.
Things have been around the world, God only knows how many times, and there's been every hell hole in the world.
Do you have any good Aggie Ring stories where somebody saw it at a...
Let me tell you, 3D International, you go out there on the corner of San Felipe and Loop 16 and the building still sits there and it's my company that sold my interest to the employees.
We built that company with a simple marketing strategy.
I joined Vic Newhouse and there were 25 guys and we had, that first year, they had 500,000 in revenues.
The last year I was there, we had had over 1,000 employees and we were doing work in 26 states and had offices in 12 foreign countries.
We did 2 billion in construction that year.
Aggies played a big part in that.
When we got ready to go to another part of the world, I would take my directory of former students, Cross Index, the country that it was in, go back and find them.
Hell, I could send an email, Mohammed, you know,
I recall fondly our days at Bazell Hall.
I will be, you know, in country at so-and-so and so-and-so.
I'll call for an appointment.
You know, Muhammad would go crazy trying to figure out where he met me.
But, you know, I said Bazell Hall.
He was at A&M.
You know, this must have been one of those crazy guys.
And they'd see me and, you know, we'd start.
And suddenly you had, wherever you went, you had a network.
And, you know, I had a Chinese Aggie partner.
I had an Indian Aggie partner.
I have Arabian Aggie partners, you know.
Has that ring ever helped you get a special place to stay when the hotel was full or a table?
Well, of course, all those guys.
I mean, when I went into any country, I had immediately some powerful friends.
And whatever problem I had,
They were delighted to solve.
Look, if the phone rings, the guy says, Rains, I'm here, you know, from Nepal, and this is my first trip to Houston, but we were together at A&M, and I'm trying to get this done in Houston.
Now, what the hell do you think I'm going to do?
You know, everything that guy needs, we're going to, you know, make sure he's taken care of.
It's like part of being a large extended family.
Like a friend of mine said, he said, hell, y'all are Jews with uniforms.
This was a Jew who said that, so I'm going to let the record reflect that.
And he went to the University of Georgia, played ball there, and was an ROTC.
Why are Aggie rings so treasured?
Well, it's a physical manifestation that you have, one, achieved something that you worked hard to do, two, it tells other people that you're proud of it, and three, it identifies you to the brotherhood and sisterhood, the fraternity of Aggies, which transcends all the Greek fraternities and other bullshit.
What do you want done with yours when you are no more?
That is up to my family.
I have three.
Sherry is 81.
Misty is 85.
And Tom's 90.
And Sherry has her own.
Misty doesn't.
And Tom doesn't.
And he'll probably wind up with it, I guess.
But I'm going to leave enough crap for them to, you know, split up mementos and things.
Did you buy senior boots?
I did.
How much did they cost?
I bought a Sabre on anticipation because originally I was scheduled
be a two diamond man.
They took care of that for me when they threw me out.
But I left in that state of limbo.
So a buddy of mine said, I want you to have my saber.
I said, well, he said, take it.
You know, I'll either get it back from you or you can pay me for it.
I bought some secondhand boots over at Hollix because
It was a guy who I'd shined his boots when he was a senior.
They went to another guy, and then he had, they had not been worn one year, and he wanted me to wear them my senior year, and I bought them from him, and I sold them afterwards.
How much is that?
Do you remember how much?
Oh, a hundred and something bucks, you know.
It, you know, I know people that ordered and got new boots and all.
Hell, I couldn't begin to.
Now, you didn't wear them that often then, did you?
No.
Final review, that's... I'll show you some upstairs when we go up there.
When you went through final review as a senior, how did you feel?
Well, first a sense of relief because I knew I was going to graduate at Final Review and that was a big load off my shoulders.
And, you know, because you had Final Review and you had that whole day.
Mother was there and it meant a lot to her.
And she was very proud, and I think my dad was, but dad was a kind of, yeah, he was still mad I didn't go to Baylor, I think.
I don't know.
He was proud of me, but.
And how soon before you opened that diploma, to be sure, it was yours and your name was on it?
Oh, well, that's, you know, you did that, you know, as soon as you got back to that seat.
How well did you feel that A&M had prepared you for the real world?
Oh, I think A&M, A&M teaches you far more than you learn in a classroom.
I didn't learn a damn thing in a classroom.
I wasted four years
squandered a wonderful opportunity and, you know, they should have kicked my ass around.
And, you know, I was cursed with the ability to do what it took.
A&M was not challenging academically.
And so I was going to do whatever, you know, if the bar had been higher, I would have gotten over the bar.
But if the bar was low, which it was then,
You know, I got over the bar and that left me with 85% of my time to fuck off.
And I did that with the same intensity that later I applied to becoming successful.
What creates this Aggie spirit?
Shared experiences, there's a commitment to the same goals, same value system that's reinforced in the whole culture of what it is.
Are there some key events in that shared experience?
Well, you know, but the whole thing is service above self.
First thing they teach you is, you know, that any good military outfit does or anything that's bad, look, you know, you are a piece of shit.
You're not important.
What's important is,
The unit, the institution, what we embody, the ideals, that's what's important.
You are not.
And that's very important for people to learn and always keep in mind because, you know, they used to have the slavehold, you know, all famously.
And the higher you go, more people are blowing smoke up your ass and more, you know, you get to feel like that.
But if you're a part of the Aggie family, they're never going to let you get too puffed up.
We may have already asked this in a different way.
What did you learn at A&M that's been important in your life?
Well, A&M reinforced what my mother and daddy had always taught me, which is, you know, basic fundamental values.
And, you know, I'll share a foxhole any day with an Aggie or just like a wood member of my family.
I mean, you know, you can count on them.
The thing that Aggies have going for them, people might make some joke about an Aggie or this, that, or the other, but by God, in their heart of hearts, everybody, you know, when it's time to choose up sides in a fight, they want you on their side.
And the reason is because you can count on them.
There isn't any quid in them.
All right, now I've got about three or four more summary questions about this, but what I haven't asked many other people, let's go beyond.
Share with this machine some of the important decisions that you have been involved in regarding A&M since you graduated.
Well, a great, you know, I sent you all that.
You've got all the bio data and all the stuff.
The thing that, I had the chance to chair the Academic Task Force on the Target 2000.
And just as you did, and we read your report that Dr. Bob Schutz, if he's still around, you ought to talk to him about all that.
Because I've followed closely what they did this time, and they all said, yeah, we read all,
You know, and I got several of them calling me about, Raines, when y'all said so-and-so, what went on this?
Same thing you had.
Back to that report that you were... Oh, the Target 2000.
There were three parts to it, you know, the agricultural extension, the engineering extension, and which really dealt with those schools and those things.
But they gave me the center slice, which was the academic test one.
And let me pick a bunch of people
that I wanted on there, and I asked Larry Fouracre to serve on there, which he was dean at Harvard, and we got Woody Varner.
I'd heard about him at Nebraska and what he had done.
I knew Dr. Lorena Rogers and Dr. Mickey LaMader, and they agreed to serve, and, you know, I mean, there's...
There were two groups.
Why the hell do you want a bunch of T-Sips?
How the hell did you talk them into coming down and spending all this time at A&M?
They were delighted.
I got Dr. Bill Lemon down at the University of Texas, Galveston.
People that I had met, and we had a good bunch of the A&M family, but I wanted a bunch of people outside the A&M family that brought a different perspective and viewpoint.
And so if I made a contribution, it was bringing those people up.
The key to success for me in my entire life, if I could pass something to future Aggies, and I tell this to young people when I talk to them, get ready, write this down, this is the pearl.
I always worked to be the dumbest, laziest guy on the team.
If anyone gets carried, I want it to be my big fat ass.
I want smart folks around me because that's how you get things done.
We put together a great bunch of people.
I laid down, the only rules I laid down is get outside this existing paradigm.
You know, forget about what's happened in the past.
We're starting with a clean sheet of paper.
What A&M is and the best parts of it, no matter what we say, you're not going to change that.
And I am secure in the foundation.
Where we stand today is because we're on the shoulders of giants.
Now, let's talk about where we go next.
And they did.
And it was fun.
Do you feel good about what A&M did?
If you go look at our recommendations, which we got down, I got criticized by, Bum Bright said, you know, he said, this thing, I'm trying to paint everything maroon and white and make it all A&M.
And I said, Bum, you know, he said, we didn't want you to do graphic design.
You know, you're trying to drum up work for your company.
I said, Mom, look, this is about politics.
University of Texas, they project out to the people, they're everywhere and they're doing things for them.
We don't.
We're the best kept secret in the world.
And we need to go say, this is all A&M and it's serving you.
That's my message there.
And that's why we got down to this detail and why we're doing it.
But those ideas ran down.
through there.
A couple of them are mine, but most of them, you know, when you throw them out, you'd get the elevator and say, obviously you need to be doing that.
I can't imagine that you're not.
Do you mean you're not doing that?
and four acre was a great ally he would just kind of lay in the weeds and and then when you know he had watched the ebb and flow and when we'd be in one of those tight battles and i had a lot of the former students who really didn't want to change much they had weighed in he was my calvary he and woody people like that so we hammered out and we worked through
And every one of the recommendations that I wanted to get through, we got through, you can go read them.
And if you remember, we finished that, what, in 78, 79, somewhere in there, whatever I found.
You know, we worked on it two years, preliminary, then that, then direct.
And then you go look at what we said then and what's accomplished now, and it's astounding.
We didn't get to law school yet.
And that was one of the most controversial things I put in there.
That was my deal totally.
Boy, that's the last thing.
We need a bunch of damn lawyers.
A&M's not about lawyers.
But we need it, again, for political reasons.
What other important actions are you proud to claim a part of?
Well, just, you know, about everything.
Serving on the board of the Association of Former Students was very rewarding.
I enjoyed that.
You know, we, the foundation traces its roots back to getting, but we're the ones that breathed life into the foundation, put money into the foundation, and really created the modern foundation.
And you look at where it is today and from that standpoint back there, which again was I think in the 70s, I'm not even, you know, it all begins to get blurred.
I have to go back and consult.
You look at what that foundation has become and it's, I'm proud of that.
And the other, my idea was this, that we make that and the university, Jarvis Miller wanted that to be a part of A&M.
I'm pretty sure he was president then.
It was him or some other ignoramus.
Wanted it to be a part A&M, wanted to control it.
I felt very strongly.
And we had some people, well, you can't tell the president.
I said, the hell I can.
He works for us, you know.
He has no jurisdiction.
You know, if we're going to create it, we're going to fund it, make it independent.
We're here to help the university.
But if it's part of this university, the legislature will get their hands on it.
or they'll cut appropriations, say, take it out of the foundation.
If it's independent and it's out here, a standalone foundation, they can't get their hands on it, and neither can university.
I said, how many presidents have you seen?
You know, and during our lifetime, we'll see a hell of lots more.
And I hope we have a lot of Jack Kenny Williams and a lot of Earl Rudders.
I said, but you know, there could be a lot of bozos like whoever, and I'm pretty sure it's Jarvis.
I used to call him President Bozo.
You know, Haskell, we've had some numbnuts down there.
This is a note to the typist to add as an editorial note.
I've learned in recent months, as an example about keeping the foundation private, I've learned that when Mr. Sterling Evans first wanted to make a big gift of his estate,
that he turned to John Lindsay for advice, and he told Mr. Lindsay that he wanted to make the gift to the Board of Regents officially, that they would decide what to do with it.
And thank goodness Mr. Lindsay persuaded Mr. Evans not to give it to the Board, but to give it to the Foundation, and for Mr. Evans to clearly specify
what intent he had with the gift and how it was to be used.
Terribly important.
Thank goodness.
Lindsay and I have been unindicted co-conspirators and a whole bunch of those things like that because it's about understanding spheres of influence and balancing of powers.
And if you study the Constitution of the United States and the separation and their checks and balance system, that's what we have trove to do at A&M.
And I think it is the reason
that when my time comes, I will die quietly and peacefully because I know some institutions that I believe in will exist that will continue to do those things.
As you review all these years, can you think of any important errors A&M made or any sins of omission, things that could have done that didn't do?
Well, they err on the side of being conservative, which I tend, you know, that's my basic nature.
And for me to say someone is too conservative means that they've really got to be hide-pound.
But A&Ms, and that's our great, it's like most people, their great strengths, their great weakness.
My passion for things is a great strength.
It's also a great weakness because if someone doesn't share that passion, you scare the hell out of them before you ever get a chance to engage with them.
But A&M is, they remind me of the people that ride in the old nine passenger station wagons and they're in the seat facing backwards.
They can tell you about everywhere they've been, but they're trying to tell the guy that's driving the thing up there where he's supposed to be going based on where they've been.
I learned when I went off to Coast Guard OCS principle of navigation is, you know, you fix your present position, you look at your last position, and then you project off of that your course to achieve your next position.
So I'm a big believer of looking back, knowing where you are to plot where you're going.
But you can't just do it.
You can't drive facing backwards.
And if A&M has
Something I would, I'd like to get more people looking out front.
I think that's happened.
And the younger ones now, I counsel some of them, you know, we ought to get rid of RC or we ought to, you know, they're a little, a little quick to change.
It's maintaining balance.
Of all the presidents, A&M president, I'm not going to ask you the negative.
Of all the presidents you've observed at Texas A&M, to which ones would you give the highest marks?
Well, Earl Rudder for his leadership and he, you know, it's like Nixon going to China.
Earl Rudder is the only guy that could have said the Corps is optional and women are in.
I mean, they would have lynched Jack Kenny Williams.
But if you, so if you measure it in paradigm shift, fundamental change, the war goes to Rudder.
The guy that followed him, Jack Kenny Williams, no one moved that, that,
college to a university could have done it as well as Jack Kenny Williams who is just without peer and then
for that bunch of bozos that the governor appointed, you know, to run him off has to rank as the, they are to identify and have a monument down of shame for all those regents that voted on that.
And every student have, they go down there and they piss on their statue every year.
That should be a new tradition.
so that they're in the hall of shame at A&M.
He came down to the medical center here in Houston and did for the medical center what he'd done for A&M.
And never held any rancor, he accepted everything.
I learned so much from that man and he is one of my great heroes.
Certainly mine.
But those two guys, and we have had
Like I say, we've had Chancellor Bozos and President Bozos, and we've had some real Lulus down there in just my short tenure.
Okay.
If you could be a consultant to A&M's leadership, to A&M's leadership today, what advice would you give them about future direction of Texas A&M?
Well, I would say read the reports that you have all these talented people come in and spend a lot of time doing.
I mean, it's the reason that, one, you know they love A&M.
Two, you know they're eminently qualified and you could not hire them.
And three, they may make an occasional mistake of the head, but they're going to be none of the heart, and they're not motivated by anything but a sincere desire to see that university.
So I would pay very close attention.
There's a rebuttable presumption that every one of those recommendations should be vigorously implemented.
All right, if you were to make a major gift to Texas A&M, for what purpose would you want that gift used?
Well, I've thought about that because at some point, if fortune smiles on me and I'll cut that off, instead of giving the money to Texas A&M,
A&M to decide or try to tell them, I will do it through a family foundation.
And my three Aggies, who love that school and have just as many ties as I have because they're second generation now,
and my grandchildren who are already arguing about where they go, they will decide and I want them to decide what A&M's needs are and not some faceless, nameless people that I don't know who may come along because I have served as a trustee on a lot of boards, Haskell.
And some of them, I think, you who created all this, if you knew the kind of morons who were going to come in and some of the harebrained ideas that they have on how to spend your money, you'd be turning over in a grave.
So I'm not saying that my family has the know-all, the end-all, but I do know something about their genes and what I've drilled into them.
And I have more trust in their judgment of determining what A&M's needs are and hopefully using that money wisely than I do some folks up there.
So most of my giving will go that way, and I will trust the next generation.
All right, but let me be more specific.
If you were deciding right now
What purposes would you want your gift spent for if it were today?
I would want to see more
continuing education through the internet and outreach from A&M.
A&M still today, for all of its strengths, does not reach out and touch average Texans.
We are not a state-supported school.
We're a state-assisted school.
But the foundation is still public money and we're still a public institution.
We're an asset of the people.
And in my view, the greatest criticism I could make of A&M is we do not
do the job we should in touching the lives of average Texans.
There are people that pay taxes and have sacrificed, invested in that place that we have never served.
And we need to, that is, our roots are...